Hello everyone and welcome back.
So far we've had the winning checks and the functions that actually check the colors and change the
colors.
What we need to do now is create all the game logic using Jake Query that will actually assign all this
to happen on a click.
So as I mentioned earlier this is kind of an extreme use of.
Query you would probably want to use javascript to raise and more stuff on the back end if you're actually
programming this.
But this is kind of just to show the power of Jey query if you really want to force it to use the document
object model manipulation I'm going to start with clear run.
So I will say variable current player is equal to the number one.
And then I will have the current name be equal to player 1 and then I will have the current color be
equal to player color actually player 1 color.
Excuse me.
So we start off with player 1 So let's say that start with player 1
and the next thing I want to do is change the heading to indicate that it's player 1 sign when he is
Shakeri.
Here the say H-3 text and say Player 1
is your turn.
Pick a column to drop in
and then what I'm going to do is using Jake.
I will say bored button
on click all function and this function is basically going to call all my logic again probably normally
not what you would want to do.
But this is going to allow us to kind of show off what Jay creek can do that week.
The fact that we can do this all through a dom call instead of saving the Ticketek to abort to an array
or a nested array.
So you're going to say a variable column and I'm going to need to recognize what column was chosen and
I can do that with the this call here.
So this keyword is going to indicate what column the person clicked on.
And then I can actually say closest CD to find the closest cell to this and then get the index of that.
So that's the column.
And again there's a stack overflow link in the notes to indicate some terms that we didn't cover such
as closest and then index that offer that we need to then get back the bottom available wrote the change.
So I'm going to say this variable bottom avail is equal to bottom passing in that column.
And then I want to drop the chip in the column that is at the bottom available Rho.
So I will call change color.
And passen bottom avail.
CIOL and then current color
and now we want to check if there's a win or a tie.
Someone's going to say if there is a horizontal one check
or there is a vertical in check or returns a Boolean OR there is a diagonal check.
Then what I'm going to need to do is end the game and to indicate the game has ended.
We can just do something like Jake queery call H-1 and change its text to say something like winning
let's say whatever player we currently are on which is the current player.
Actually it's going to be the current name current players just the actual number one which will show
later on how we actually going to switch from player to player to say current name.
You have one so we actually change the heading there and we can change some other things too we can
do a fade out.
So let's practice that.
We're going to say
three
fade out.
That's an animation that you can find on that Jay query link and then I'm also going to the same thing
for H-2
fade out and in the solutions this is actually done as a separate function.
This whole Winchester is a separate function and is call on fast and you can also pass in milliseconds
there.
All right so if I get either a horizontal one check vertical uncheck or diagonal uncheck I'm going to
change my heading one text to say current name you have one.
And then I'm going to fade out fast fade out fast from the other three headings or two headings excuse
me.
Now what we to do is recheck who the current player is and change the current player.
So if I'm still continuing after this it means there is no win or tie so I'm going to say the current
player is equal to the current player times negative one.
And then and when to use that actual number to change to re-assignment.
So I will say if Kramm player is equal to a positive one will then I know where a player won.
So I know the current name
is Player 1 member that was the prompt from the very first lines of code.
And then what I'm going to do is change using j query my heading 3 to say some text such as current
name is your turn.
And then else I noticed the other players names don't say current name is equal to Player 2.
And then change the heading for player to we'll say H-3 text current name is your turn.
And then I want to change the current colors as well so say current color is equal to Player 2 color.
And let's do the same thing.
Up here.
So here I will say current color is equal to Player 2 color excuse me and player want to color
so we can save that and then we can continue if it come up.
I can change the color to the current color at the bottom available at that column.
So this basically is going to keep cycling.
Whenever I click the board and that is all you have to do to actually make connect for work.
Now I know you say that's all you have to do.
This is quite a bit of effort especially since we're really trying to juice the most out of J query
instead of using something like an array.
Well let's actually save this and refresh our page and see if it works.
Going to refresh.
I get player 1 into your name let's call it a player to enter your name.
Let's call it be.
Well OK let's see if I can drop it.
Great.
Now it says it's your turn or should say be it.
It is your turn.
So we will keep dropping it.
Now we can see here.
Let's practice getting it vertical in and says Be you have one perfect.
And then I just have to refresh the page.
I'll start again with a and then B let's get a horizontal one here.
And looks Whoops I accidentally clicked too many times but I also got the horizontal win.
And now let's make sure the that no one is working as well.
So make some player names.
It's just junk and let's make those names.
We'll say try to get blue to be the admiral here.
Now we're going to keep going.
And there's the diagonal in.
Great.
All right.
Do you have any questions for this.
Feel free to post the Q&A forums with something I want to make clear is really just an exercise to show
its possible with Jake queery and the front end stack that we learned you would probably want to do
most of this sort of stuff either on the back end or by taking advantage of javascript's data structures
like an array.
Especially for this type of problem you would not want to have so much logic on just a simple click
with all this.
Jake Query.
This is more just to show how much you can.
Jake Query given what we know so far.
Okay.
Thanks everyone.
And I will see at the next section of the course we're going to begin our move to the BASKINS.